Title: Fresh Installation

Bonfire has a simple installation script that is designed to help you, the developer, get up and running with a minimum of fuss. It is not designed to be used for an end product that you distribute. Installation is a simple process mainly composed of uploading your files and running through a quick 2-step install.

About: Step1 - Upload Your Files

Upload all of the files/folders from your package to your web server or development environment. The web root should point to the main folder that contains

> /assets
> /bonfire
> /docs
> index.php


About: Step 2 - Configuration File

If you do not have mod_rewrite installed on your server, change the Index File to include index.php

> $config['index_page'] = 'index.php';


About: Step 3 - The Install Script

To start the installation process, head to http://yoursite.com/install.

You should be greeted by a Welcome screen that asks you for: 

	Your Database information	- Enter the connection details for your database. Click Test DB.
	
	If all goes well, it should direct you to Step 2 (the final step), where you just need to enter your: 

	Site Title	- The name of your site, as it will appear in the browser's title bar or tab.
	Username	- Choose a username to log into the site with (if the site is setup that way).
	Password	- Type a password and confirm it.
	Your Email	- This will be the address that you use to log in with, as well as the address
				  used to send system emails from. This can be changed later to be able to use
				  separate addresses for login and system emails. 
				  
By default, Bonfire is setup to use emails to login with, and not use usernames at all. This can be easily configured on the main settings screen.

Assuming that everything proceeds without a hitch, you will be redirected to the login screen. Enter the email and password you just used, and you will be sent to the admin dashboard where you can start building your app. 

About: Site Not Working?

If your install did not seem to go as expected, check out the <Troubleshooting Guide> for common installation problems.